**Wentworth Institute Of Technology**

**College of Engineering & Technology**

**Department Of Computer Science & Networking**

**Web-Portal User Manual**

**Medical Mirror**

![](media/image28.png){width="2.557292213473316in"
height="2.557292213473316in"}

**Grant Bellar - bellarg@wit.edu**

**Mike Durkin - durkinm2@wit.edu**

**James Salvatore - salvatorej1@wit.edu**

**COMP-4970-06 Spring 2017**

**Table of Contents**

**1 Doctor Web-Portal **
========================

Welcome to the Medical Mirror Web-Portal User manual. This section is
describing the use and characteristics for a doctor level account while
using the Medical Mirror Web-Portal. In this section we will describe
each page and it’s function as well as some helpful diagrams and
descriptions for each part of any given page. The doctor sections begins
at the Overview page and it is assumed that you are logged in with the
credentials provided by your medical institution. If you do not know
your credentials then please contact your medical institutions
administrator for the Medical Mirror Web-Portal.

1.1 Overview Page
-----------------

![Figure 1.png](media/image37.png){width="5.182292213473316in"
height="4.343490813648294in"}

**Figure 1: Overview Page**

This section will describe the Overview page which is the first page
presented to you after you log in. The first part of the page is the
“Patient” icon shown in **Figure 1** in red and marked 1. This icon
links to the patient page which gives you a list of all of your patients
who have Medical Mirror Interfaces. This page also will give you access
to individual patient profiles which in turn let you access regimens and
reports for individual patients. So you will follow this link for a
majority of what you will do with this web-portal.

The second part of the page is the “MediBase” icon shown in **Figure 1**
in the blue and marked with a 2. This icon links to the Medical Mirror
Web-Portal’s built in medication database search tool. From that page
you will be able to search and see detailed information about
medications you may be prescribing your patients. All information show
on this page is sourced from OpenFDA which is a database owned and
maintained by the FDA.

The third part of the page is the “How-To-Guide” icon shown in **Figure
1** in the green and marked 3. This icon links to a helpful how-to-guide
which provides general knowledge and tips for navigating and using the
Medical Mirror Web-Portal. This link provides brief descriptions of
functions present for patients and patient profile pages. As well as
functions for the creation and management of regimens for an individual
patient. It also provides a listing of options present for the medibase
page.

The fourth part of the page is the “FAQ” (frequently asked question)
icon shown in **Figure 1** in yellow and marked 4. This icon links to
the FAQ page which provides a list of frequently asked questions and
their answers.

1.2 How-To-Guide page 
----------------------

![Figure 2.png](media/image27.png){width="4.588542213473316in"
height="4.26464457567804in"}

**Figure 2: How-To-Guide Page**

This section describes the how to guide page which is navigated to
through the overview page. This page provides a helpful how-to-guide
composed of general knowledge and tips for navigating and using the
Medical Mirror Web-Portal. Each section marked in red in **Figure 2**
expands and provides brief descriptions of functions present for
patients and patient profile pages. As well as functions for the
creation and management of regimens for an individual patient and also
provides a listing of options for searching the medibase page.

1.3 FAQ page
------------

The FAQ page serves a similar function to this guide and provides
guidance and answers to common questions you may have as a doctor on
this page.

1.4 MediBase page
-----------------

![Figure 4.png](media/image40.png){width="6.5in"
height="3.3333333333333335in"}

**Figure 3: MediBase Page**

This section describes the MediBase page which is navigated to through
the overview page This page is a tool which allows you the doctor to
search the OpenFDA medication database for information about
medications. In **Figure 3** above the sections marked in red are the
fields which are the search criteria that can be used to search the
OpenFDA database. You can search by a single field or with all three for
a medication. You can search for a medication by it’s brand name, a
substance present in it or the name of the manufacturer of the
medication. These search criteria are then queried to the OpenFDA
database and return the best matches. The limit on the number of returns
can be changed in the field marked in blue in **Figure 3**. Then the
results are displayed below the search menu and can be clicked into for
more detailed information.

![Figure 5.png](media/image25.png){width="3.3489588801399823in"
height="3.896626202974628in"}

**Figure 4: MediBase Page (Search Result)**

Above in **Figure 4** is an example of a return for a search of Advil
Liquid Gels from the MediBase page. Within a return the purpose, usage,
substance, manufacturer, product type, route and product NDC will be
listed where applicable.

1.5 Patients page
-----------------

![Figure 6.png](media/image39.png){width="5.113415354330709in"
height="4.973958880139983in"}

**Figure 5: Patients Page**

This section describes the Patient's Page which can be navigated to
through the overview page. This page provides a list of all patients
assigned to you the doctor and allows you to filter sort and search this
list as needed. Above in **Figure 5** marked in red are the columns
which a patient list can be sorted by with either ascending or
descending patient IDs, First Names or Last Names. The columns shown can
also be changed with the drop down menu in **Figure 5** which appears
when the ![](media/image29.png){width="0.44062554680664917in"
height="0.26752187226596674in"} icon is clicked. From here you can
select to add or remove any of the columns from the patient table. You
can also search your patient list by any of the fields using the search
bar shown in **Figure 5** in purple in the upper right corner. The list
of visible patient per page can also be increased or decreased using the
dropdown menu with rows per page marked in **Figure 5** in brown in the
lower left portion of the page.

1.6 Patient Profile Page 
-------------------------

![Figure 7.png](media/image26.png){width="6.5in" height="4.5in"}

**Figure 6: Patient Profile Page**

This section describes the Patient Profile Page which can be navigated
to through the overview page then the patients page. This page provides
a general overview of a patient as well as provides links to a patient's
reports page and regimens page. Shown above in **Figure 6** marked in
red is the patient information template. In this template a patient's
basic information will be shown like their full name, email address,
phone number and home address. This allows you as a doctor to search
patients who have a Medical Mirror Interfaces and contact them. Also
shown above in **Figure 6** is the Regimens icon which is marked in
blue. This icon links to the regimen page and is how you as the doctor
will create, manage and remove regimens for your patients Medical Mirror
Interface. There is also another icon shown in **Figure 6** which links
to the reports page marked in green. The reports page is how you as the
doctor will check to see if your patient is utilizing their Medical
Mirror Interface and see their responses.

1.7 Regimens Page 
------------------

![Figure 8.png](media/image24.png){width="5.453125546806649in"
height="4.5792268153980755in"}

**Figure 7: Regimens Page**

This section describes the Regimens Page which can be navigated to
through the overview page then the patients page then the patient
profile page. This page is the main tool of the Medical Mirror
Web-Portal and it’s purpose. On this page you the doctor manage a
patient's regimens which in turn generates notification for your patient
on their Medical Mirror Interface. Shown above in **Figure 7** is the
base page of a patient's Regimens Page. On this page you can see cards
for both current and past regimens for a patient. Shown in **Figure 7**
in the blue region is the section for current regimens which are
regimens that have an end date that is either the current date or some
date in the future. Cards in this region display the name of the
medication as well as the start date and end date scheduled for that
medication. Show in **Figure 7** in the green section are cards for
regimens which are in the past and contain end date which are older than
the current date. Cards in this region display the name and end date of
the medication. Only cards in the current section can be edited or
deleted while cards in the past section can be examined but not changed.
To create new regimens you will click on the
![](media/image23.png){width="0.8833333333333333in"
height="0.2760422134733158in"}button shown in **Figure 7** marked in
red.

![Figure 9.png](media/image30.png){width="5.578125546806649in"
height="4.546398731408574in"}

**Figure 8: Individual Regimens Page**

By clicking the Create New button you will be presented with the screen
shown in **Figure 8** above. Here you will specify all the details of a
regimen for a patient.

1.  First you must enter a name for the regimen. Preferably the name of
    > the medication for easier future reference. In the field marked
    > with red in **Figure 8**

2.  Second you must select the start and end dates of the regimen. These
    > dates can be extended in the future but must be set initially.
    > Open the calendar by clicking the
    > ![](media/image36.png){width="0.3541666666666667in"
    > height="0.28125in"} button in the regions marked in blue in
    > **Figure 8**

3.  Third you must select on what days and what times the medication is
    > to be consumed. A time can be added to a date by selecting the
    > ![](media/image32.png){width="0.9270833333333334in"
    > height="0.3020833333333333in"}button marked in the yellow regions
    > in **Figure 8**. This will have a drop down menu which you select
    > the time the medication is to be due. You may only set a
    > medication to be due a maximum of 10 times on any given day.

4.  Fourth you can duplicate a week schema if the regimen is always due
    > at the same times each week. This can be done by selecting
    > ![](media/image34.png){width="1.5520833333333333in"
    > height="0.2604166666666667in"} slider marked in orange in
    > **Figure 8.** This will replicate that week schema for the rest of
    > the weeks between the first day of that week and the end date.
    > Only replicating times on valid dates in a week schema.

5.  Fifth you can add a dosage instruction if there is some special note
    > you have for a patient which can be viewed on their Medical Mirror
    > Interface.This field is marked in brown on **Figure 8**. This
    > could be something like “Consume with a meal” or other specific
    > and uncommon instructions to go along with that medication.

6.  Sixth you must save your regimen by clicking the
    > ![](media/image31.png){width="0.5861111111111111in"
    > height="0.26407152230971126in"} shown in the purple region in
    > **Figure 8**. This is to ensure the regimen is sent to the
    > database and that your patient will receive it.

1.8 Reports Page 
-----------------

![Figure 10.png](media/image41.png){width="5.578125546806649in"
height="3.1376957567804022in"}

**Figure 9: Reports Page**

This section describes the Reports Page which can be navigated to
through the overview page then the patients page then the patient
profile page. This page provides you the doctor with useful analytics
about your patient and their habits for taking their medication. After
navigating to the reports page you are presented with a base display
similar to the regimen page. This page shows all of a patient's regimens
both past and present to review. Shown in **Figure 9** above in the red
section is where cards would be for regimens which a patient is still
currently adding to. Where the end date is either the current date or
some date in the future. Also shown in **Figure 9** above in the blue
section is where cards for past regimens are show. These cards represent
regimens with end dates already past the current date. You can select
either of these types of cards in these sections and review the reports
for that regimen.

![](media/image35.png){width="7.265625546806649in"
height="3.353365048118985in"}

**Figure 10: Reports Page (Report)**

Shown above in **Figure 10** is an example of a report for a regimen. In
this report you can see the name of the medication. The start and end
dates for the regimen. You can also see the patients responses
represented as a table and graph. You can scroll through the table and
see the responses a patient gave on any given day for any given time
slot for their regimen. In both the table and graph responses are
represented in one of four ways.

-   **YES** - The patient responded 'YES' to taking their medication at
    > the scheduled time in the regimen. This is represented with green
    > on the table and graph

-   **NO** - The patient responded 'NO' to taking their medication at
    > the scheduled time in the regimen. This is represented with yellow
    > on the table and graph

-   **MISST** - The patient missed their medication, and have yet to
    > respond (they have 12 hours from the original scheduled time to
    > respond). This is known as a temporary miss. This is represented
    > by gray on the table and graph.

-   **MISSP** - The patient missed their medication and did not respond
    > within 12 hours of the original scheduled time and no longer have
    > a chance to respond. This is known as a permanent miss. This is
    > represented by red on the table and graph.

This data can also be exported as either a PDF, Excel (XLSX), CSV or TXT
so it can be view and analysed outside of the Medical Mirror Web-Portal.
This is done by selecting a file type from the drop down menu and
selecting the ![](media/image2.png){width="0.6979166666666666in"
height="0.3333333333333333in"}button above the table.

2 Administrative Web-Portal 
============================

Welcome to the Medical Mirror Web-Portal User manual. This section is
describing the use and characteristics for an Administrator level
account while using the Medical Mirror Web-Portal. In this section we
will describe the Administrative Page and it’s function as well as some
helpful diagrams and descriptions for each part. . The Administrator
sections begins at the Administrator page and it is assumed that you are
logged in with the credentials provided by your medical institution. If
you do not know your credentials then please contact your Medical Mirror
representative for your medical institution.

2.1 Administrative Page 
------------------------

![](media/image22.png){width="7.2485094050743655in"
height="3.3906255468066493in"}

**Figure 11: Administrative Page**

This section will describe the Administrative page which is the first
page presented to you after you log in. The page presents a list of all
doctors who are currently or at one time or another been registered to
use the Medical Mirror Web-Portal. This list can be sorted searched and
changed. The table of doctors can be sorted in ascending or descending
order by Doctor ID, Username, Active, First Name, Last Name, or Creation
Date as shown in **Figure 11**. The visible columns can also be changed
by clicking on the ![](media/image38.png){width="0.44062554680664917in"
height="0.26752187226596674in"} icon in the upper right corner of
**Figure 11** and selecting or deselecting columns from the drop down .
You can also search for doctors using the search field in the upper
right of **Figure 11.** The number of doctors shown per page can also be
changes with the drop down menu in the lower left of the page.

![](media/image33.png){width="6.896005030621172in"
height="2.744792213473316in"}

**Figure 12: Administrative Page (activate/deactivate)**

You can select any doctor in the list and view their status. After
selecting a doctor you will be prompted with a card as shown in **Figure
12** above. From here as an administrator you can select to activate or
deactivate a doctor's account with the drop down menu of current status.
You can then save the change and the update will be sent to the database
and ensure the change is applied to the doctor's account for when they
log in. either preventing or allowing them to sign in.
